DOCSP-34574: sharedinclude and replacement descriptions (#159)
mongodb/docs-meta: source/style-guide/markup/directives/sharedinclude.txt

.. _style-guide-sharedinclude:

==============
Shared Include
==============

The ``sharedinclude`` directive allows you to source content from a file
located in the MongoDB internal `docs-shared <https://github.com/10gen/docs-shared>`__
repository. Use this directive when you need to keep the same content in sync
for multiple sets of documentation or multiple branches of a documentation set.

This page uses the following terms:

> - **External file**: content committed to the ``docs-shared`` repository

Author: Thanks for the formatting suggestion, will try it out.

  that can be sourced by other documentation repositories.
- **Sourcing file**: content in a documentation repository that uses a
  ``sharedinclude`` directive to pull content from an external file.
- **Placeholder**: a variable that indicates text that the sourcing file
  must provide a replacement for. These are located in external files and are
  represented by the placeholder name surrounded by the ``|`` (pipe)
  character.

.. tip::

   The ``sharedinclude`` directive is an extension of the ``include`` directive.
   While the ``include`` directive allows you to source content from the
   branch of the repository in which it is used, the ``sharedinclude``
   directive is hardcoded to reference external files from the
   `10gen/docs-shared <https://github.com/10gen/docs-shared/>`__
   private GitHub repository.

Setup
-----

> You must add the URL from which to source the shared content in the
> ``sharedinclude_root`` setting of the documentation repository's ``snooty.toml``
> configuration file. This should reference the unprocessed versions of the files,
> currently served from the ``raw.githubusercontent.com`` domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must add the URL to source the shared content in the
``sharedinclude_root`` setting of the documentation repository's ``snooty.toml``
configuration file from. This URL should reference the unprocessed versions of the files,
currently served from the ``raw.githubusercontent.com`` domain.
```

Author: Thanks for rewording this! I think the placement of the preposition at the end of the first sentence may make the sentence more complex, so I'm rewording the paragraph.

> If the shared content that your docs repository file references is on the
> ``main`` branch of ``docs-snooty``, your ``snooty.toml`` configuration entry
> should resemble the following line:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if the shared content that your docs repository file references is on the
``main`` branch of ``docs-mongodb-internal``, your ``snooty.toml`` configuration entry
should resemble the following line:
```
Is this supposed to be an example or is ``docs-snooty`` a real repo? If example, changed the example repo name to be less confusing with ``snooty.toml``. If it is a real repo, disregard!

Author: Whoops, good catch. This should be docs-shared to correspond with the repo referenced in the code-block.

.. code-block::

   sharedinclude_root = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/10gen/docs-shared/main/"

Snooty reports an error if you attempt to use ``sharedinclude`` without
configuring this setting.

Syntax
------

To include content from an external file, add the ``sharedinclude`` directive

> to the sourcing file. Specify the path of external file relative to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the sourcing file. Specify the path of the external file relative to the
```

following content with a replacement variable called ``|driver-name|``:

.. code-block:: rst
   :caption: language.rst in the docs-shared repository
   :copyable: false

   The following table shows the compatibility between different versions of
   the |driver-name| driver and the |driver-language|:

The sourcing file could resemble the following code:

.. code-block:: rst
   :caption: compatibility-table.txt sourcing file in the documentation repository
   :copyable: false

  .. _sharedinclude:: drivers/compatibility-tables/language.rst

     .. replacement:: driver-name

        PyMongo

     .. replacement:: driver-language

        Python language

The published page displays the following text:

.. code-block:: rst
   :copyable: false

   The following table shows the compatibility between different versions of
   the PyMongo driver and the Python language:

Snooty reports a warning or error if the sourcing file is missing any
replacement variables present in the external file.

Placeholders in Inline Context
``````````````````````````````

An **inline context** describes the positioning of placeholders as adjacent to

> other paragraph text. You can only replace variable placeholders in an inline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other paragraph text. You can replace variable placeholders only in an inline
```

context with values that contain markup elements which includes any of the

> following types:

Reviewer 3: [Wordsmith suggestion]

Could we rewrite this sentence as something like the following to try and simplify the language:

> You can replace variable placeholders in an inline context with values that contain only the following markup elements:

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I think this may lose the nuance that the list is not complete, but rather includes the types in the list. Will try a rewrite.

- Unformatted text
- Formatted text such as ``monospace``, **emphasis**, or *italic*
- Links

> For example, suppose you want to source content from an external file, located

Reviewer 3: [Nit, minimalism]

I think we can omit "For example". I think "suppose" is enough to indicate that we're talking about an example / hypothetical scenario.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I think I will try removing the "suppose" since I think "for example" is a better signal for example content. I usually use "suppose" to signal a specific scenario, but think it can be omitted for brevity.

Reviewer 3: I'm ok with leaving as-is. I think any tweaks for minimalism here likely aren't worth spending a ton of time on, and might risk compromising the intent of the passage.

> at ``dbx/fundamentals/agg-operators.rst`` in the ``docs-shared`` repository,
> which contains the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at ``dbx/fundamentals/agg-operators.rst`` in the ``docs-shared`` repository
that contains the following content:
```

.. code-block:: rst
   :caption: dbx/fundamentals/agg-operators.rst external file in docs_shared
   :copyable: false

   To learn more about **aggregation operators**, see the
   |learn-agg-operator-docs|.

In the sourcing file, you can use the following placeholder replacement
in the ``sharedinclude`` directive:

.. code-block:: rst
   :caption: agg-operators.txt sourcing file in a documentation repository
   :copyable: false

   .. sharedinclude:: dbx/fundamentals/agg-operators.rst

      .. replacement::

         Aggregation Operations page in the
         :server:`MongoDB Server documentation </aggregation>`

> The published page renders as if the sourcing file contained the following rST:

Reviewer: Use one of the source constants for rST.

```suggestion
The published page renders as if the sourcing file contained the following rST:
```

.. code-block:: rst
   :copyable: false

   To learn more about **aggregation operators**, see the Aggregation Operations
   page in the :server:`MongoDB Server documentation </aggregation>`.

You cannot replace variable placeholders in inline contexts with elements
such as lists, codeblocks, includes, and headers. If you need to

> source these elements from a ``sharedinclude``,, make sure the placeholders

Reviewer: **Typo:**
```suggestion
source these elements from a ``sharedinclude``, make sure the placeholders
```

are in a block context as described in the following section.

Placeholders in Block Context
`````````````````````````````

A **block context** describes the positioning of placeholders as
separated from paragraph text by linebreaks. You can replace variable

> placeholders in a block context with most inline or block rST elements

Reviewer: Source constant for rST

> including the following types:

Reviewer 3: [Question]

I'm having a little trouble parsing this sentence. Is "including the following types" referring to either:

- The elements that I can replace variable placeholders with
- The types of rST elements where I can perform the replacement

Author: Updating this based on our discussion in Slack.

- Titles
- Code blocks
- Anchors
- Admonitions

For example, suppose you want to source content from an external file, located
at ``dbx/fundamentals/agg-operators.rst`` in the ``docs-shared`` repository,

> which containsk the following content:

Reviewer: **Typo:**

```suggestion
which contains the following content:
```

.. code-block:: rst
   :caption: dbx/fundamentals/agg-operators.rst external file in docs_shared
   :copyable: false

   The next section demonstrates how to use aggregation operators to build
   an aggregation pipeline.

   |aggregation-operators-example|

   To learn more, see ...

In the sourcing file, you can use the following placeholder replacement
in the ``sharedinclude`` directive:

.. code-block:: rst
   :caption: agg-expression-operators.txt sourcing file in a documentation repository
   :copyable: false

   .. sharedinclude:: dbx/fundamentals/agg-operators.rst

      .. replacement:: aggregation-operators-example

         .. _expression-operators-example:

         Expression Operators Example
         ````````````````````````````

         Expression operators are similar to functions and can take an array
         of arguments as shown in the following format:

         .. code-block::

            { <operator>: [ <argument1>, <argument2> ... ] }

> The published page renders as if the sourcing file contained the following rST:

Reviewer: Source constant for rST

.. _style-guide-sharedinclude:

==============
Shared Include
==============

The ``sharedinclude`` directive lets you source content from a file located in
the MongoDB internal `docs-shared <https://github.com/10gen/docs-shared>`__
repository. Use this directive when you need to keep the same content in sync
for multiple sets of documentation or branches of a documentation set.

This page uses the following terms:

External file
  Content committed to the ``docs-shared`` repository that other documentation
  repositories can source.

Sourcing file
  Content in a documentation repository that uses a ``sharedinclude``
  directive to pull content from an external file.

Placeholder

>   A variable that identifies where replacement content should be inserted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Variable that identifies where to insert replacement content.
```
